add HyperClovaX Vision (#44314)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/en/model_doc/hyperclovax_vision_v2.md

<!--Copyright 2026 NAVER Corp. and The HuggingFace Inc. team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

⚠️ Note that this file is in Markdown but contain specific syntax for our doc-builder (similar to MDX) that may not be
rendered properly in your Markdown viewer.

-->
*This model was contributed to Hugging Face Transformers on 2026-07-21.*

> *This model was released on {release_date} and added to Hugging Face Transformers on 2026-05-26.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*This model was contributed to Hugging Face Transformers on 2026-07-21.*
```
I myself have no idea when this new version appeared but we should remove the old one 😬

<div style="float: right;">
    <div class="flex flex-wrap space-x-1">
        <img alt="FlashAttention" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/%E2%9A%A1%EF%B8%8E%20FlashAttention-eae0c8?style=flat">
        <img alt="SDPA" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SDPA-DE3412?style=flat&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white">
    </div>
</div>

# HyperCLOVAX Vision V2

HyperCLOVAX Vision V2 is a multimodal vision-language model developed by NAVER. It combines the [HyperClovaX](./hyperclovax.md) language model backbone with a [Qwen2.5-VL](./qwen2_5_vl) vision encoder. The model supports text, image, and video inputs and is capable of chain-of-thought reasoning via built-in thinking tokens (`<think>...</think>`).

You can find the original HyperCLOVAX-SEED-Think-32B checkpoint on the [naver-hyperclovax/HyperCLOVAX-SEED-Think-32B](https://huggingface.co/naver-hyperclovax/HyperCLOVAX-SEED-Think-32B) page.

The example below demonstrates how to generate text based on an image with [`HyperCLOVAXVisionV2ForConditionalGeneration`].

<hfoptions id="usage">
<hfoption id="Image input">

```python

> from transformers import HyperCLOVAXVisionV2ForConditionalGeneration, HyperCLOVAXVisionV2Processor

Reviewer: Let's use auto pls, or are we waiting for the hub PR?

Reviewer 2: On the hub PR ordering — here's the situation on our side: if we merge the hub PR right away, engines already pointing at the hub checkpoint (vLLM, etc.) could hit a BC break, even though we've announced it. 

My plan was to merge the hub PR alongside this one and then follow up with PRs to the others, 
But I'm not sure what the canonical ordering is — is it standard to land the hub PR before the library PR in cases like this?
Happy to follow whatever you'd recommend.

Reviewer: Best to land the hub PR first then merge the official PR. But as long as we coordinate properly shouldnt be an issue - just add revision on the model PR here and we remove it afterwards

Reviewer 2: Sounds good, thanks. 
The hub PR is up at [discussions/14](https://huggingface.co/naver-hyperclovax/HyperCLOVAX-SEED-Think-32B/discussions/14).

@jp1924 — could you pin `revision="refs/pr/14"` on the model loading here so CI can validate against it?

```python
AutoProcessor.from_pretrained(
    "naver-hyperclovax/HyperCLOVAX-SEED-Think-32B",
    revision="refs/pr/14",
)
```

Once loading checks out on that revision, I'll merge the hub PR on my side — so that by the time this PR is ready to merge, we can drop the `revision` here and point back to `main`. 
That way the hub side lands right when we need it, without breaking anything already on `main`. 
Lmk if that works 🙏

Author: Done, but scoped to the [integration test (`HyperCLOVAXVisionV2IntegrationTest.setUp`)](https://github.com/jp1924/transformers/blob/c1cce3fdf38d097e66ff69c681e29650bec58dc0/tests/models/hyperclovax_vision_v2/test_modeling_hyperclovax_vision_v2.py#L244-L255) rather than the doc examples. 
1. CI validates loading through the integration test, not the doc code blocks (they aren't executed against the 32B checkpoint in CI)
2. `refs/pr/14` is transient — it's dropped once the hub PR lands on main, and baking it into published docs would leave users copy-pasting a dead PR ref after merge. Added a TODO to drop the test pin and point back to main once the hub PR is merged. 
If you'd prefer the doc examples pinned temporarily as well, I can add it.

Author: @bigshanedogg

While running the integration tests against `refs/pr/14`, loading the processor fails with:

```
    ValueError: Unrecognized image processor in naver-hyperclovax/HyperCLOVAX-SEED-Think-32B.
    Should have a `image_processor_type` key in its preprocessor_config.json ...
```

The image/video processor configs are missing on refs/pr/14 — `preprocessor_config.json` (and `video_preprocessor_config.json`) return 404 on that revision, though they're present on main. Could you add them to the hub PR (same as main)? Once they're there, the processor loads and CI can validate the revision.

<!--Copyright 2026 NAVER Corp. and The HuggingFace Inc. team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

⚠️ Note that this file is in Markdown but contain specific syntax for our doc-builder (similar to MDX) that may not be
rendered properly in your Markdown viewer.

-->
*This model was released on {release_date} and added to Hugging Face Transformers on 2026-05-18.*

<div style="float: right;">
    <div class="flex flex-wrap space-x-1">

>         <img alt="PyTorch" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-DE3412?style=flat&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
we no longer do this (since we are torch only), not on you just a recent decision

    out_ids[len(in_ids):] for in_ids, out_ids in zip(inputs.input_ids, generated_ids)
]
output_text = processor.batch_decode(
    generated_ids_trimmed, skip_special_tokens=True, clean_up_tokenization_spaces=False
)
print(output_text)
```

</hfoption>
<hfoption id="Video input">

```python
from transformers import HCXVisionV2ForConditionalGeneration, HCXVisionV2Processor

model = HCXVisionV2ForConditionalGeneration.from_pretrained(
    "naver-hyperclovax/HyperCLOVAX-SEED-Think-32B",
    device_map="auto",
)
processor = HCXVisionV2Processor.from_pretrained("naver-hyperclovax/HyperCLOVAX-SEED-Think-32B")

messages = [
    {
        "role": "system",
        "content": "You are a helpful assistant.",
    },
    {
        "role": "user",
        "content": [
            {
                "type": "image_url",
                "image_url": {"url": "/path/to/video.mp4"},
            },
            {"type": "text", "text": "Describe this video."},
        ],
    },
]

# Use processor.tokenizer.apply_chat_template for video inputs.
# processor.apply_chat_template rewrites image_url to image before the
# template runs, which breaks HCX's extension-based video detection.

> text = processor.tokenizer.apply_chat_template(

Reviewer: This is weird, why are we even using image url --> shouldnt it be video url to properly distinguish between img/video? cc @zucchini-nlp

Reviewer 3: huh, didn't see it. I believe related ti how the jinja template is saved on the hub

This indeed looks weird, lets' ping the Naver team to change model-type/jinja/etc or ask them to host a non-remote version. @jp1924 , when you are done passing over comments, could you list the things we need to change on the hub and ping @ (bigshanedogg). We need to either push directly to the existing repo or upload a new repo with `{{MODELNAME}}-hf` suffix

Author: https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/pull/44314#discussion_r3008382827
You can check the details via this link. 
Sharing the text below as well since the link is dead.

```
I added this logic because video handling for HCX is broken on recent versions of transformers.

If you look at HCX's chat_template.jinja, it handles image/video differently from most models.  
Models like `Qwen2_5_vl` or `VideoLLaMA3` expect multimodal items in a normalized form such as `{"type": "image"}` or `{"type": "video"}`.  
HCX, however, uses `{"type": "image_url", "image_url": {"url": "video.mp4"}}` and `{"type": "image_url", "image_url": {"url": "image.png"}}`, then branches by file extension inside the template.

In newer transformers, this block rewrites image_url into image:
https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/blob/2da00a3cec88fac160d481406e7961cf59472894/src/transformers/processing_utils.py#L1792-L1799

Because of that rewrite, HCX's image_url-based branch no longer triggers correctly. As a result, even when a video is provided, it gets rendered like plain text:

    ```
    >>> from transformers import AutoProcessor
    >>> processor = AutoProcessor.from_pretrained("naver-hyperclovax/HyperCLOVAX-SEED-Think-32B", trust_remote_code=False)
    You are using a model of type `vlm` to instantiate a model of type ``. This may be expected if you are loading a checkpoint that shares a subset of the architecture (e.g., loading a `sam2_video` checkpoint into `Sam2Model`), but is otherwise not supported and can yield errors. Please verify that the checkpoint is compatible with the model you are instantiating.
    >>> video_messages = [
    ...     {
    ...         "role": "user",
    ...         "content": [
    ...             {"type": "image_url", "image_url": {"url": "https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-internal-testing/sam2-fixtures/resolve/main/bedroom.mp4"}},
    ...             {"type": "text", "text": "What is shown in this video?"},
    ...         ],
    ...     }
    ... ]
    >>> text = processor.apply_chat_template(video_messages, tokenize=False, add_generation_prompt=True)
    >>> text
    '<|im_start|>user\n\nWhat is shown in this video?<|im_end|>\n<|im_start|>assistant\n<think>\n\n</think>\n\n'
    >>> video_messages
    [{'role': 'user', 'content': [{'type': 'image', 'url': 'https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-internal-testing/sam2-fixtures/resolve/main/bedroom.mp4'}, {'type': 'text', 'text': 'What is shown in this video?'}]}]

    ```

If it were working correctly, the output should include the video MIME and video tokens, e.g. mime_start / video_aux_start / VIDEO_PAD, not the plain-text-only prompt above.

bigshanedogg The current multimodal input contract in naver-hyperclovax/HyperCLOVAX-SEED-Think-32B is non-standard.  
I opened a Hub discussion/PR to update chat_template.jinja so it aligns with current processor behavior:
https://huggingface.co/naver-hyperclovax/HyperCLOVAX-SEED-Think-32B/discussions/12

zucchini-nlp Until that template update is merged, we need to keep this compatibility code in this PR.  
I'll follow up again once we have a decision on the Hub-side template PR.
```

    return_tensors="pt",
).to(model.device)

generated_ids = model.generate(**inputs, max_new_tokens=256)
generated_ids_trimmed = [
    out_ids[len(in_ids):] for in_ids, out_ids in zip(inputs.input_ids, generated_ids)
]
output_text = processor.batch_decode(
    generated_ids_trimmed, skip_special_tokens=True, clean_up_tokenization_spaces=False
)
print(output_text)
```

</hfoption>
</hfoptions>

Quantization reduces the memory burden of large models by representing the weights in a lower precision. Refer to the [Quantization](../quantization/overview) overview for more available quantization backends.

The example below uses [bitsandbytes](../quantization/bitsandbytes) to load the model in 4-bit.

```python
from transformers import BitsAndBytesConfig, HCXVisionV2ForConditionalGeneration, HCXVisionV2Processor

quantization_config = BitsAndBytesConfig(load_in_4bit=True)
model = HCXVisionV2ForConditionalGeneration.from_pretrained(
    "naver-hyperclovax/HyperCLOVAX-SEED-Think-32B",
    device_map="auto",
    quantization_config=quantization_config,
)
processor = HCXVisionV2Processor.from_pretrained("naver-hyperclovax/HyperCLOVAX-SEED-Think-32B")
```

## Notes

> - HyperCLOVAX Vision V2 uses a unique media input format. Both images and videos are specified using `{"type": "image_url", "image_url": {"url": "..."}}`. The processor and chat template distinguish images from videos by file extension (`.mp4`, `.avi`, `.mov`, `.mkv`, `.webm`, `.flv`, `.wmv`, `.m4v` are treated as video; everything else is treated as image).

Reviewer: Ah ok this is the explicit change, imo would maybe make sense to have a different chat template if possible. This really is weird

    ```python
    # Image input
    {"type": "image_url", "image_url": {"url": "https://example.com/image.jpg"}}

    # Video input (identified by file extension)
    {"type": "image_url", "image_url": {"url": "/path/to/video.mp4"}}
    ```

    > [!WARNING]

>     > Video input via `processor.apply_chat_template` is currently broken. Recent Transformers versions rewrite `image_url` entries to `image` before the chat template runs, so the video-detection branch in HCX's template never triggers and video inputs are silently dropped. As a workaround, use `processor.tokenizer.apply_chat_template` to render the prompt text, then pass the video path separately to `processor(...)`. See [this review comment](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/pull/44314#discussion_r3008382827) for details.

Reviewer: I think the review comment is closed, cant load via url it seems

Author: I've reopened the comment.

the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

⚠️ Note that this file is in Markdown but contain specific syntax for our doc-builder (similar to MDX) that may not be
rendered properly in your Markdown viewer.

-->
*This model was released on {release_date} and added to Hugging Face Transformers on 2026-05-11.*

<div style="float: right;">
    <div class="flex flex-wrap space-x-1">
        <img alt="PyTorch" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-DE3412?style=flat&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white">
        <img alt="FlashAttention" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/%E2%9A%A1%EF%B8%8E%20FlashAttention-eae0c8?style=flat">
        <img alt="SDPA" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SDPA-DE3412?style=flat&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white">
    </div>
</div>

# HyperCLOVAX Vision V2

> HyperCLOVAX Vision V2 is a multimodal vision-language model developed by NAVER. It combines the HyperCLOVAX language model backbone — based on the [Granite](./granite) architecture with optional post-norm (Peri-LN) layers for MuP scaling — with a [Qwen2.5-VL](./qwen2_5_vl) vision encoder. The model supports text, image, and video inputs and is capable of chain-of-thought reasoning via built-in thinking tokens (`<think>...</think>`).

Reviewer 3: imo we can say that the lm is HypexClovax now

You can find the original HyperCLOVAX-SEED-Think-32B checkpoint on the [naver-hyperclovax/HyperCLOVAX-SEED-Think-32B](https://huggingface.co/naver-hyperclovax/HyperCLOVAX-SEED-Think-32B) page.

> [!TIP]

> > The `model_type` in the released checkpoint's `config.json` is `"vlm"`, while the Transformers implementation registers this model as `"hyperclovax_vision_v2"`. Due to this mismatch, loading via `AutoModel` or `AutoModelForCausalLM` is not supported. Use the model class directly as shown in the examples below.

Reviewer 3: lets see if we can do anything to this with Naver team before merging

Author: I'm not sure there is much I can do from this side. The PR has been open for almost two months, but there still doesn't seem to be a clear path toward getting the Hub-side change accepted.

Reviewer 3: cc @vasqu if you have a better idea without changing configs on the hub, or we also have contact of the person from Naver team on GH

Reviewer: Yea no I don't think this is possible without changing this on the hub, imo we have 2 options
1. Hub PR is changed to accept this change
2. Have a community based version

We can ask internally on slack or should I if we have some contacts to the team? The issue is that the model type is so generic that it really cant be accepted as is, otherwise I would have been for just renaming it here :cry:

Reviewer 3: We have the person who shipped LM hyperclovax on GH, they are from Naver. Though not sure if it will be accepted

Reviewer 2: Sorry for the late review.
Based on my current understanding of the issue, the model_type field in config.json on the hub needs to be changed from "vlm" to "hyperclovax_vision_v2". 
Could you confirm whether that's correct?

Reviewer 3: Yes, and we also need a change on jinja chat template, as per comment on https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/pull/44314#discussion_r3270676252. The template can add videos depending on extension or if the {"type": "video"} is indicated on the content

Up to you, if you want to create a new '-hf' repo for this or you can merge in existing repo. I don't want to push you to merge into existing repo, if not possible for BC reasons

Reviewer 2: I've posted the related [BC-break notice on the hub](https://huggingface.co/naver-hyperclovax/HyperCLOVAX-SEED-Think-32B/discussions/13). 
It seems the changes you mentioned (`model_type` and `chat_template`-related updates) could be reflected on our side shortly.

I've also left a couple of minor suggestions (regarding class naming and processor-related code) in the [comment](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/pull/44314#pullrequestreview-4324607962) below — please feel free to share your thoughts whenever convenient.

It looks like the validation tests against the TR report benchmarks haven't been run yet for the current implementation. 
If the current PR already reproduces the expected performance without issues, the processor-related suggestion is purely a code-organization point and doesn't affect behavior — so it would be perfectly fine to address it in a follow-up issue (it's also independent of the hub-side changes).

That said, if you'd prefer to include it in this PR, I already have the relevant code ready and can run the benchmark tests together before pushing.

I'm happy to defer to @jp1924 and the reviewers on how to proceed.

Reviewer 3: Thank you ❤️ 

So the plan is to drop off support for remote code and keep the HF integration after the release? For the benchmarks, i think you need to organize with @jp1924 who knows better if the current state of PR is oke to test or not yet. From our side, we don't have anything blocking and as you said, the rest of the comments we have are pure codestyle and organization

Author: The relevant parts will be handled on the hub side, so I've removed them from the documentation.

The example below demonstrates how to generate text based on an image with [`HCXVisionV2ForConditionalGeneration`].

<hfoptions id="usage">
<hfoption id="Image input">

```python
import torch
from transformers import HCXVisionV2ForConditionalGeneration, HCXVisionV2Processor

model = HCXVisionV2ForConditionalGeneration.from_pretrained(
    "naver-hyperclovax/HyperCLOVAX-SEED-Think-32B",
    torch_dtype=torch.bfloat16,
    device_map="auto",

>     attn_implementation="sdpa",

Reviewer 3: nit, delete dtype and attn_implementation, they are loaded from config
